1 Wake up, America. Wake up, Europe. Wake up, Asia. China is rising. The Dragon is dancing. Can you dance? If there were ever a time to wake up to the sheer power of China's population, buying power, energy needs, consumer demands, and eventual military strength, that time is now. This is your wake-up call, and it will not be pretty. We will all have to adapt, change and, well, dance. We all need to wake up and learn to better understand how the future of China will shape our world. This is a future fast touching everyone on the planet, and the implications are huge.
2 As China rises, the evolutionary needs of two billion people in a few scant years will reshape markets, competition and trade on a scale we can only imagine. Trillions of dollars of wealth will be traded, exchanged, and moved from West to East. Computers for two billion, make it now! How do you feed two billion people? Quickly. Get ready for change on a scale that redefines everything.
3 China is changing. It is a historic and positive step that China has traded a planned economy for a market economy of Adam Smith's The Wealth of Nations. The march into the future, the embrace of opening-up, and the prosperity that is emerging will help to transform this great nation. At the same time, China still must learn to adapt to the realities of a global economy. Social reforms will come with time. Until then, the rest of the world needs to gain greater understanding of China.
4 The Chinese are driven to achieve in ways that Americans and Europeans used to be. The everyday things we take for granted, from clean water to affluence, most Chinese have not yet experienced. Think 1879, the era of the Industrial Revolution. Now, with advanced innovations like the Internet, wireless technology and nanotechnology, the possibility of China leapfrogging the world's other industrial powerhouses – the US, Japan, and Europe – will recast a new global order.
5 Most organizations, governments and leaders sense this historic shift happening now. Some might say it is already too late to change to meet this challenge. I don't agree. We still have a historic opportunity to meet the China challenge and adapt to the new realities of the Asian giant's rise to power.
6 This intense competition of China's new success is a blessing in disguise for the rest of us. We need to adapt our societies to meet this challenge. If we do not raise the bar on innovation, transform education, nurture entrepreneurship, and get on with encouraging science and engineering, we will be creating a destiny in which the Chinese dominate markets and eventually nations. If economic power breeds political power, then we in the West had best recognize that we are facing the challenge of a rising new civilization, one that will have influence in all spheres on a scale we have never faced before. The West can be inspired and respect the Chinese for raising the bar on innovation and industry, or it can wither in denial. We can and must meet the China challenge by adapting and changing quickly. This is a call to action on a national scale that should rightfully change every institution in America. We need a plan of action now or we will suffer the consequences of a reduced quality of life and an inability to compete on a global scale with China's workforce, economy and industry. Fair warning is given here.